Electric vehicles and battery energy storage can be used as flexible sources of energy to alleviate the uncertainties in the system.

A depth-first communication mechanism was used to ensure that each MGA could obtain necessary information from the others.

In this decentralized restoration scheme, microgrid agent can solve the restoration rolling horizon optimization problem using the MISOCP algorithm. Bus block agents locate and isolate the fault based on the locally available information, and assist the microgrid agent in reconfiguration and restoration. 

An agent is able to react to changes in the environment to solve complex problems. They possess the key properties of reactivity, pro-activeness and sociability. The agents possess three key characteristics, namely autonomy, local view, and decentralization.

Agents are hardware or software entities with high level of abstraction, resident in a given environment, with the ability to interpret  data  and  run  autonomous  actions  that  change  the environment state [28–31]. They have characteristics such as autonomy,  reactivity,  proactivity  and  sociability.  These  are intrinsic abilities of intelligent entities [31]. They are characterised by their behaviour and ontology. Ontology is a specification used for the purpose of enabling knowledge sharing and reuse by an agent or a community of agents. FIPA is an IEEE Computer Society standard organisation, established in 1996, that promotes agent-based technology and the interoperability of its standards with other technologies [32]. The model protocol defined by FIPA is service-oriented, where the application layer has multiple sub-layers rather than only one as in the OSI or TCP/IP models. The agents can interact by using a set of FIPA defined iteration protocols, e.g. FIPA-Request Protocol,FIPA-ContractNet  and  FIPA-Subscribe  [30].  These are  the protocols  used  in  this  work.  FIPA-Agent Communication Language (ACL) is a standard language for agent communications

Switches connect bus blocks together.

The test results have demonstrated the importance of multi-agent communication in real-time control and management of smart grids.

The architecture of the proposed MAS is dynamically and automatically modified according to power system status. The simulation results demonstrated the feasibility of the proposed MAS. Our future work on this research will focus on implementation of the MAS in a real-world application and testing the system in more complex scenarios.

Agents have the abilities to communicate and collaborate with other agents to perform individual tasks or to restore the power system. Nagata et al. extended their power restoration system [4] by using DCS [9],[10]. In their new design, local agents are controlled by a numberof coordinator agents. Each coordinator agent and its controlledlocal agents form a local group, where the coordinator agent actsas a local group leader. Different groups can communicate,cooperate, and work together to restore the power system. Kodama
et al. proposed an autonomous restoration approach for power
distribution network by using the contract net protocol [11]. An agent in the outage area will broadcast a connection task in the network, and all valid agents in the generation area will bid for that. The agent in the outage area will decide which generation area the agent should fulfill the task based on itself’s interests. By comparison with CCS, DCS is more robust and flexible, and more suitable to be used in modern open, distributed, dynamic power systems. However, DCS also has some disadvantages, which may limit the performance of some applications. One of the biggest issues is that by using DCS, agents may focus on neighboring communications and information exchanges, and their decision-making process might be locally optimized, and it is hard to provide a global optimized solution efficiently. How to balance the effectiveness and efficiency in a power system restoration becomes an important research issue. In this paper, a Dynamic Team Forming Mechanism (DTFM) is introduced to reach such a balance, so as to improve the performance of MAS-based power management systems. By comparison with CCS and DCS, the major differences between the proposed DTFM and existing works [9], [12] are that: 1) our MAS structure is not fixed, but changeable in-between the distributed structure and the hierarchical structure according to complexity of faults; 2) system keeps a minimal number of agents during day-to-day normal operations when no fault is detected. However, when faults are detected in the system, a reasonable number of agents will be generated to solve the faults. When the problems are solved, the extra agents will be destroyed; and 3) system can provide reasonable solutions for faults at different complexity levels. Local groups are firstly
generated to provide the local optimized solution. The group
size will be gradually increased according to the complexity of faults. Finally, the global optimized solution can be provided to solve fatal faults and catastrophic failures when necessary.

[xyz1] A. Sharma, D. Srinivasan and A. Trivedi, "A decentralized multi-agent approach for service restoration in uncertain environment", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 3394-3405, 2018.
[xyz2] H. Li, H. Sun, J. Wen, S. Cheng and H. He, "A fully decentralized multi-agent system for intelligent restoration of power distribution network incorporating distributed generations", in IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 66-76, 2012.
[xyz3] M. J. Ghorbani, M. A. Choudhry and A. Feliachi, "A multiagent design for power distribution systems automation", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 329-339, 2016.
[xyz4] A. Sharma, W. A. Arokiasami and D. Srinivasan, "A multi-agent approach for service restoration with distributed generation", 2013 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies-Asia (ISGT Asia), pp. 1-6, 2013.
[xyz5] C. P. Nguyen and A. J. Flueck, "Agent based restoration with distributed energy storage support in smart grids", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 1029-1038, 2012.
[xyz6] R. F. Sampaio, L. S. Melo, R. P. S. Leão, G. C. Barroso and J. R. Bezerra, "Automatic restoration system for power distribution networks based on multi-agent systems", in IET Generation, Transmission and Distribution, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 475-484, 2017. 
[xyz7] F. Ren, M. Zhang, D. Soetanto and X. Su, "Conceptual Design of A Multi-Agent System for Interconnected Power Systems Restoration", in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 732-740, 2012.
[xyz8] A. Zidan and E. F. El-Saadany, "A cooperative multiagent framework for self-healing mechanisms in distribution systems", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 1525-1539, 2012.
[xyz9] A. Sharma, D. Srinivasan and A. Trivedi, "A decentralized multiagent system approach for service restoration using DG islanding", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 2784-2793, 2015.
[xyz10] M. J. Ghorbani, F. D. Mohammadi, M. A. Choudhry, A. Feliachi and D. A. Ashby, "Hardware design for distributed MAS-based fault location in power distribution systems", 2014 IEEE PES General Meeting Conference & Exposition, pp. 1-5, 2014.
[xyz11] S. D. J. McArthur, E. M. Davidson, V. M. Catterson, A. L. Dimeas, N. D. Hatziargyriou, F. Ponci and T. Funabashi, "Multi-agent systems for power engineering applications-Part I: Concepts, approaches, and technical challenges", in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 1743-1752, Nov. 2007.
[xyz12] J. M. Solanki, S. Khushalani and N. N. Schulz, "A multi-agent solution to distribution systems restoration", in IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1026-1034, Aug. 2007.
[xyz13] Y. Xu and W. Liu, "Novel multiagent based load restoration algorithm for microgrids", in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 152-161, March 2011.
[xyz14] A. Arif and Z. Wang, "Networked microgrids for service restoration in resilient distribution systems", in IET Generation, Transmission and Distribution, vol. 11 no. 14, pp. 3612-3619, 2017.
