Employee's Environment, Health Safety Handbook
1. Protect Employees from job related injuries or illnesses.
2. Inform and educate Employees in areas of preventive Environment, Health and Safety.
3. Guide of prevention of hazards in plant (non-exhaustive). Complete knowledge with Environment, Health and Safety Department.

Employee Responsibilities
1. Place Safety and Health requirements as first importance in performance of work duties. Protect fellow Employees, Company Property and Public.
2. Notify violation or deficiency in working conditions to supervisor (injuries, accident, near miss etc.)
3. Participate in Environment, Health and Safety Program.
4. Obey Environment, Health and Safety instructions, policy and procedures.
5. Use Safety devices/ equipments.
6. Properly dispose all hazardous materials in acceptable manner.
7. working while drugged is forbidden. All prescription drugs must be reported to supervisor.
8. Failure to comply with or enforce Environment Health and Safety rules may result in disciplinary action or dismissal. Do not violate work rules.

General Safety and Health rules
1. Asbestos: Do not remove material suspected of containing Asbestos (adhesives, mastics, insulation, lab fume hoods, vented enclosures). If such material is damaged, inform EHS Department immediately.
2. Confined Space: Do not enter Confined Space (restricted means of entry or exit, unfavorable natural ventilation, not designed for occupancy) like tanks, manholes, sewers, trenches etc. as it can involve suffocation, oxygen deficiency, fire, explosion hazards, exposure to dangerous vapours or toxic gases, physical hazards etc.

Emergency Response Plan: In case of fire, chemical release, bomb threat etc.: 
1. Locate local fire alarms or Emergency alarm systems and learn how to operate them.
2. learn location of all exits (exit stairs) from work area, primary and alternate exit routes.
3. Know your designated Assembly point outside the building for your accountability and coworkers.
4. immediately Respond by following Plans for appropriate Emergency Response.
5. If a continuous alarm sounds, immediately evacuate the building.
6. Do not run. Use stair wells.
7. Resport to designated Assembly point outside the building immediately.
8. Escort visitors to Assembly point.
9. Do not enter building after evacuation until instructed by Management.

Electrical Safety
1. follow legal and Regulatory requirements and good industry practices. Work on Electrical circuits with power off.
2. A Safety warning, tagging and locking system will be used to ensure that all power is removed from the system. circuits will be checked by Proper equipment to make sure no voltage is present. 
3. Non-current carrying metal parts of portable/ plug connected equipment shall be grounded or Protected by double insulation.
4. Keep working Spaces, walkways etc. clear of cords.
5. Worn, frayed or damaged Electrical cords or connectors shall not be used. Must be tagged DANGER, OUT OF SERVICE or DO NOT USE.
6. Extension cords, shall be Protected from damage by traffic, sharp corners, projections, pinching etc.
7. Extension cords are temporary (90 days of maximum use).
8. temporary lighting shall be de-energized when not in use. Guards must be used to prevent accidental contact with bulb. temporary lighting must not be suspended by Electric cords unless cords and lights are designated for suspension.

Fails:
1. Always use hand rail on staircase.
2. Use caution on surface containing water or oil etc.
3. immediately clean up spills.
4. Keep stairs, walkways, aisles clear of boxes, loose materials, wires or other objects.
5. Use Safety shoes that are compatible with work Environment.
6. Do not stand or climb on desk or chair to reach high. Use a ladder.

Fire prevention
1. Know the Emergency plan for your work area. Know location of fire equipment, Proper method of turning in a final  alarm, using a fire extinguisher (portable Protected equipment)
2. Obey all rules, Regulatory and signs for fire Safety (Smoking, open flames, sources of ignition, storage, handling and use of flammable liquids and hazardous materials)
3. practice good housekeeping and fire prevention.
4. flammable liquids must be stored in approved Safety containers with flame arrestors.
5. Do not use acids, bases or oxidizers and reducers in same cabinet due to possibility of reaction.
6. Keep hand operated fire equipment in fully accessible, mounted and unostructed al all times.
7. Notify supervisor before use of fire equipment so that it can be replaced.
8. If your clothing catches fire, roll on floor or ground. Do not run.
9. Do not clean clothing with gasoline, solvents or flammable liquids.
10. Do not use oil or grease on oxygen equipment (cylnders).
11. In case of fire, find location of fire, inform control room, shout FIRE three times, try yo put it out, evacuate area and report to respective Assembly point.

First Aid:
1. It is immediate Emergency treatment provided for injury or sudden illness before professional medical care is available.
2. Never minimize the seriousness of injury or illness. Seek medical attention.
3. In case of Emergency, call control Room EXT #222.
4. Use First Aid Kits for minor cuts and scratches. Get medical attention.
5. Routine Administration must be done by qualified First Aider.

housekeeping/ Sanitation
1. Maintain Safe working conditions.
2. Keep work area clean, materials Properly stored, Keep walkways and floor areas clear of slip, trip and fall hazards.
3. Place all waste and debris in designated containers for Proper disposal.
4. Do not litter. Use containers or recycle.
5. clean up all water or beverage spills.
6. Barricade spills areas, Notify EHS Department or designated person for cleanup.
7. Store oily waste and rags and other flammable waste in Safety containers.
8. Maintain 3 feet clearance from all Electrical panels, switch boxes, switchboards. Switchgear rooms must not be used for storage.
9. Do not obstruct or block exit routes.
10. Do not block ladders, stairways, Electrical switches, fire fighting, rescue or Emergency equipment.
11. Keep tools stored neatly, racked etc.
12. Wash hands before eating.

hazard Communication

Standardized Chemicals:
physical hazards (Combustible, flammable, explosive, reactive, pressurized) 
Health hazards (toxic, carcinogenic, corrosive, irritant, sensitizer)
carcinogenic chemicals are regulated by OSHA.

EHS Department ensures that 
1. containers are Properly labeled
2. appropriate signs are posted.
3. material Safety datasheets are available.
4. Chemical Safety training is provided.
5. An inventory of hazardous chemicals is Maintained. Chemical Safety training must be recived by all Employees. hazardous Communication training must be received by all Employees by EHS Department or supervisor. Contractors must submit list of chemicals to EHS. Note down all MSDs on work site.

Health hazards
1. Dusts: Asbestos, Lead, Silica, wood dusts.
2. Mists: acid, oil, paint, poisons
3. Gases: CO, waste anesthetic gases etc.
4. Vapors: Degreasing Vapors, trichloroethylene.
5. Fumes: Metal fumes from welding, cutting, soldering
6. Ingested, skin absorption, breathing of toxic gases.

Workplace precautions
1. Read labels
2. Do not mix cleaning compunds or chemicals.
3. Learn about excessive exposure to chemicals
4. Take precautions to Protect from exposure.
5. Do not work with hazardous materials until trained.
6. Report unusual symptoms to doctor or medical provider.

Biological hazards
1. Biological Agents or substances which may harm Health.
2. Infectious Organisms.
3. toxic Biological substances
4. Biological Allergens etc.

Laboratory Safety
1. Know all exits, Safety equipment and Emergency procedures.
2. Do not smoke
3. Do not smell chemicals
4. Do not use mouth suction in filling pipettes. Use suction bulb.
5. Do not force glass tubing into rubber stoppers.
6. Use Safety devices, PPE for handling hot items.
7. Label all waste containers.
8. Confine long hair and loose clothing.
9. Never conduct experiments alone in lab.
10. Wear eye Protection while handling chemicals
11. Use Laboratory hoods to control chemical fumes, mist, vapours, Biological hazards.
12. Turn off all hotplates, open burners, hazardous devices when leaving Laboratory
13. Decontaminate and clean work surfaces daily and after spills.
14. Minimize production of aerosols.
15. Do not store food with chemicals in fridge or Biological materials.
16. Decontaminate solid and liquid waste that contains Organisms.
17. Properly label hazardous waste for disposal.

Safe Lifting
1. Get Proper Excersice, Maintain good diet and manage stress. Build upleg and abdominal muscles and keep off excess weight.
2. Do not place objects on floor if they must be picked up later.
3. Use a mechanical device if possible. Inspect device before use. Get help if object is too heavy, large or awkward.
4. Avoid lifting above shoulder height. Use ladder or step tool to move objects above shoulders.
5. Push rather than pull objects. Maintain lumbar curve and Push with your legs.
6. Wear slip resistant shoes and check to make sure that footing is firm.
7. Check the path before lifting and or moving a load so that path is clear.
8. Spread feet apart to keep wide base of support.
9. Bend at your knees instead of at your waist and Maintain lumbar curve at all times.
10. Hold lifted object as close to your body as possible. Avoid long reach.
11. Lift slowly, smoothly and without jerking.
12. Avoid unnecessary twisting. Turn your feet, not your hips or shoulders. Do not twist.
13. Take your time while setting the object down
14. Report work related back pain to supervisor

Lockout-Tagout-control of hazardous energy
1. Uncontrolled hazardous energy must be controlled e.g. flow of solids, liquids, gases into Confined spaces or Environments.
2. tagout: Placing tag on power source. Do not operate or Restore energy.
3. Tags must clearly state: DO NOT OPERATE
4. Tags must be applied by hand
5. Do not service or Maintain machine without disconnecting power and implementing Lockout-Tagout procedure.

machine Guarding
Safeguards on machines protect us from injury while operating machines

hazardous motions:
1. Rotating
2. Reciprocating
3. Transverse

hazardous actions
1. cutting, pinching
2. Shearing
3. Bending

precautions
1. Safeguard machine part, function or process to avoid injury.
2. Never start a machine unless you have been trained in the use of it.
3. Do not operate a machine without personal protective equipment (PPE) and appropriate clothing.
4. Do not wear loose clothing, neck ties, rings or jewellery.
5. Do not operate machine without Guards in place.
6. Treat unguarded machine as if it were out of order. Tag it: OUT OF ORDER-DO NOT USE
7. Report missing Guards to supervisor immediately.
8. Do not adjust or remove Guard barrier or enclosure of any machine

Motor Vehicles
1. Do not operate Company Vehicles without driver's license or driving priveleges
2. Have knowledge of Company and Government rules
3. make sure Vehicle is in Safe operating condition (lights, horns, windshield, wipers, washer, brakes, tires, fuel guage, rear view mirrors, seat belts, windows)
4. Drivers must report Vehicle defects and maintenance needs in writing to Administration Department. Vehicles with Safety deficiencies must be removed from service or repaired.
5. Do not drive in unsafe/ unlawful manner. Drive safe arrive safe. Follow traffic laws and regulations

Noise
1. excessive noise around equipment or machinery could result in gradual loss of hearing
2. If noise levels exceed limits of OSHA and WB, engineering control or hearing conservation (ear plugs, ear muffs, hearing tests) must be used
3. Contact supervisor/ EHS Department for noise control/ Protection

Office Safety
1. No running in Office
2. Walk to right of passageway
3. Do not stand in front of doors
4. Keep stairways, aisles, walkways clear of boxes, loose materials, wires etc.
5. immediately clean up spilled liquids.
6. Use handrails when using stairways.
7. Pay attention while ascending or descending stairs
8. Do not lean from a chair to pick up something from the floor.
9. Do not sit on edge of desks, tables, boxes, low filing cabinets.
10. Use staple remover. dispose broken staple removers
11. Keep fingers away from sharp edges of paper cutters
12. Wear shoes at all times.
13. Properly store Office supplies.

Computer Workstations
1. Sit with lower back against the chair, upper legs parallel to floor and feet flat on the floor or on a foot rest.
2. Adjust table and chair so that elbows are bent at right angles and your arms are approximately parallel to the floor.
3. Keep wrists neutral (straight) by using wrist rest that is the same height as the keyboard
4. Place mouse on a surface at the same height as the keyboard
5. Position moitor directly in front of you, at an arms lebgth away, with the top of te screen at or slightly below eye level. Tip the monitor back at an angle similar to that used when reading a book.
6. Adjust lighting and monitor to prevent glare or use an antiglare filter.
7. When performing tasks involving repetitive mottions or awkward positions, take periodic sretching breaks or alternate with other tasks.

Fire hazards
1. flammable solvents and cleaning solutions shall be dispensed only from approved chemicals containers.
2. solvent soaked or oily rags used for cleaning office equipment shall be kept in metal, self closing metal cans and contents properly disposed off daily.
3. Smoking is only permitted at designated areas
4. Handle solvents carefully to avoid personal injury or damage to materials or equipment.
5. Do not throw matches, cigars, cigarettes etc. into waste buckets. Soldering butts can cause fires.
6. All Electrical appliances must be unplugged at end of work day.
7. Do not use extension cords or permanent wiring.

Lifting and Moving objects
Improper lifting would result in seroius strains. Use hand truck or unpack and handle in small parcels. Do not obstruct view with bulky objects in handrails or stairways.

personal protective equipment
Annual hazard Assesment is used to identify PPE.
1. Head protection is used to prevent head injury from impact and falling or flying objects. Hard hats are required for constructio, high voltage electricity.
2. Ear protection protects from noise.
3. Eye and face protection protects from flying particles, molten metal, dust, chemicals, gases, steam, vapors, objects, biohazards, glare, light or heat radiation etc.
4. Respiratory protective equipment protects from airborne contaminants measured above threshold limit of OSHA standards.
5. Foot protection protects from foot injuries due to falling or rolling objects, Electrical or chemical hazards.
6. Hand protection protects from physical, radiation, Electrical or chemical hazards. 
7. Gloves protect from Electrical hazards.
8. Fall protection protects from falling from height of 6 feet or more not protected by standard guardrails when working in confined spaces.

Portable ladders and scaffolds
ladders
1. Ladders must be inspected frequently and rechecked for soundness and proper working condiion prior todily use.
2. Ladders which have developed defects shall be withdrawn from service for repair or destructiona and tagged or marked as DANGEROUS, DO NOT USE.
3. Ladders must not be used near power lines or other electrical devices
4. Ladders must extend 3 feet above the point of support of gutters or roof line and should be tied off.
5. Ladders must have suitable safety feet positioned firmly on the floor, ground or concrete which provides a stable flat level surface.
6. Work facing the ladder with both feet o the rungs
7. Ladders must be Maintained free of oil, grease or other slippery hazards.
8. Straight and extension ladders must be tied off and secured to the upright structure against which they lean.
9. Raise and lower tools or equipment by a hand line and tool bag.
10. Do not stand on top step of a step ladder.
11. Ladders shall be maintained in good condition at all times. The joint between the steps and side rails shall be tight, all fitting and hardware tightly attached and the movable parts shall operate freely without binding or undue play. 

scaffolds
1. Only authorized Employees shall erect scaffolds, plaforms and stagigng. Scaffolds and their parts shall be sound, rigid and capable of supporting atleast four times their maximum intened loads.
2. Footing and anchorage of scaffolds shall also be sound, rigi and capable of carrying atleast four times their maximum intened loads without settling or displacement.
3. Unstable ojects shall not be used to support scaffolds or planks
4. Platforms shall be sufficiently wide and secured to prevent slipping.
5. Guard rails and toe boards are required on all open sides where the platform is greater than 6 feet above the ground or floor.
6. Scaffolds shall not be loadd in excess of the maximum workload for which they are intended.
7. Damaged or weakened scaffolds shall be immediately repaired and shall not be used until repairs have been complted.
8. Equipment shall be inspected prior to use and maintained in good operating condition.
9. Defective or damaged equipment shall be tagged GANGEROUS, OUT OF SERVICE, DO NOT USE.

Smoking policy
1. Smoking is only permitted in smoking cabins placed by Admin and HR Department at different areas of the plant away from hazardous areas. Rs. 500 fine will be charged for violation of policy.

Tools-Hands and power
1. Use PPE safety glasses, goggles, face shields etc. when operating near hand or power tools.
2. hand or power tools shall be Maintained in a safe operating condition.
3. Power operated tools and equipment guards shall be inspected before each use and shall not be removed or tampered with.
4. Portable Electric Power tools shall be double insulated or grouded using a 3-conductor cord and a three prong plug. Electric on/off switches will operate properly.
5. Any damaged, unsafe, defective plug, cord or tool shall be reported to the supervisor immediately. The tagout Program shall be used.
6. All Employees using abrasive wheels shall be protected by eye protection equipment and eye shield shall be Maintained.
7. All fixed power driven matal and wooden working tools and equipment shall be provided with labeled disconnect switch near the tool that can be locked or tagged in the off position.
8. Only trined Employees can use tools of certain make and model.
9. Power actuated tools must be in hands of operator, locked in container, removed from site, follow all safety instructions when using power actuated tools.

Workspace injuries and illnesses
immediately Notify supervisor if you are injured or sick so that medical procedure can be followed for medical treatment.

Workspace Violence
1. Safe Healthy Environment to all Employees and public.
2. Procedure for prevention and management of incidents and threats of violence. Provide violence free workspace by establishing preventive measures, holding perpetrators accountable and provide assistance and support to victims.
3. The Factory Act 1934, Punjab Factory Rules 1978, NFPA and OSHA require Employees to provide a safe and healthy work environment.
4. Victims of workspace violence must be provided by support and reaonable security measures must be taken. Talk to supervisor, Admin and HR for confidential assistance.

Off the Job Environment, Health and Safety
Do not leave this trainign at work. Follow same self practice in outside environment as an extension of Company EHS Program.